The Active Voice
Present Simple: V1 / V1 + s.
Present Simple is used to denote:
1.	Simple present facts and general statements:
E.g. He lives in London. She is a second-year student.
2.	Universal (timeless) truths:
E.g. Water boils at 100C. The sun rises in the east.
3.	Repeated present actions:
E.g. She always has coffee with her breakfast.
E.g. It usually takes him 10 minutes to get to the university.
4.	Actions that happen according to a certain timetable:
E.g. The museum opens at 9 a.m. and closes at 5 p.m.
5.	Future actions in clauses of time and condition (if, as soon as, less, unless, till, untill, when, after):
E.g. If the weather is fine, we will go swimming.
E.g. As soon as she comes, I will ask her to give you a ring.

Present Continuous: to be (am, is, are) + V1 + ing.
Present Continuous is used to denote:
1.	Actions in progress at the present time (at the moment of speaking) or in the present period of time:
E.g. They are watching a film now.
E.g. Is it raining now?
E.g. I'm reading a very interesting book at present (not now, but in the present period of my life).
2.	Personal plans for the near future (the action is arranged):
E.g. I'm leaving for New-York tomorrow morning.
E.g. I'm seeing my friends tonight.
3.	Changing processes:
E.g. It is getting dark. I have to go now.
E.g. Your English is improving.
4.	Annoyance and exaggeration with such adverbs as "always, constantly, forever" (Эмоции):
E.g. She is always grumbling!
E.g. He is forever making a mess in his room!
5.	Temporary, in-progress behavior in the construction (Несвойственное поведение)
"be + an adjective" (bad, cruel, (un)fair, foolish, (il)logical, funny, generous, (im)polite, lazy, (un)kind, noisy, rude, serious, silly, (un)pleasant):
E.g. Why are you being so illogical about this matter?
E.g. That's a bit strange! Steve is being so polite today.

Past Simple: V2 / V1 + ed.
Past Simple is used to denote:
1.	An action (an activity) or situation that began and ended at a particular time in the past:
E.g. They arrived in London last Friday.
E.g. She bought a very nice dress yesterday.
E.g. He phoned you 2 hours ago.
2.	A succession of actions (activities) that began and ended at a particular time the past:
E.g. She returned home, had dinner, and went straight to bed.
E.g. The lecturer entered the classroom, greeted the students, and asked them to take their seats.

Past Continuous: to be (was, were) + V1 + ing.
1.	An action (two or more simultaneous actions) that was in progress at a particular time or period of time in the past:
E.g. While Ann was doing her homework, her parents were watching TV.
E.g. I was listening to music at 5 p.m. yesterday.
E.g. The children were sleeping when we arrived.
E.g. What were you doing this time yesterday? I was raining all day long yesterday.

Present Perfect: have, has + V3 / V1 + ed.
Present Perfect is used to denote:
1.	A completed actions that has a connections with the present time:
E.g. I have lost my key, so I can't get into the house.
E.g. I have just had lunch, so I am not hungry.
E.g. We have been friends since our childhood.
E.g. They have known each other for a long time.
2.	Events that have or haven't place before now:
E.g. Have you ever been to Paris?
E.g. I haven't seen him before.
E.g. He has never travelled by plane.

Present Perfect Continuous: have, has + been + V1 + ing.
Present Perfect Continuous is used to denote:
1.	An action (or an activity) that began in the past and is still going on (INCLUSIVE) or has just stopped (EXCLUSIVE):
E.g. I have been doing my home task since morning, so now I'm getting tired.
E.g. Your eyes are red. Have you been crying?
E.g. He has been learning Chinese since September.

Past Perfect: had + V3 / V1 + ed.
Past Perfect is used to denote:
1.	An action that was finished before another action or period of time in the past:
E.g. Amy had already left for work when Bill came home.
E.g. By the time they had their first baby, they had been married for five years.
E.g. I had finished the task by the time the teacher asked us to hand in our papers.

Past Perfect Continuous: had + been + V1 + ing.
Past Perfect Continuous is used to denote:
1.	An action (or an activity) that started in the past and was in progress before another activiti or period of time in the past:
E.g. Tom had been writing his yearly essay for three hours when his friends called on him.
E.g. Mrs Black had been working in the garden for two hours when it started to rain.

Future Continuous: will + be + V1 + ing.
Future Continuous is used to denote:
1.	An action that will be in progress at a certain period of time in the future:
E.g. This time tomorrow I will be having a good time at the seaside.
E.g. What will you be doing at 5 p.m. tomorrow?

Future Perfect: will + have + V3 / V1 + ed.
Future Perfect is used to denote:
1.	An action that will be finished before another time or action in the future:
E.g. They will have built the house by the end of this year.
E.g. By the time my friends call on me, I will have done my home task and cleaned my room.

Future Perfect Continuous: will + have + been + V1 + ing.
Future Perfect Continuous is used to denote:
1.	An action that will be in progress before another time or action in the future:
E.g. By the end of next year they will have been living in this flat for 7 years.
E.g. By 2014 he will have been driving for twenty years.

All times (Examples):
1.	We will be watc.ing a movie in the cinema in 5 o'clock tomorrow. Future Continious
2.	She has coffee two times a day. Present Simple
3.	They will go to the countryside tomorrow. Future Simple
4.	They are meetinig with their foreing friends now. Present Contineus
5.	He met his old friend yesterday. Past Simple
6.	They were skiting from 3 o'clock to 5 o'clock. Past contineous
7.	We have already discussed this question, lets go on to the next one. Present Perfect
8.	I have been reading this book for 3 days. Present Perfect Continuous Inclusive
9.	They had come back by 6 p.m. yesterday. Past Perfect
10.	They will have finished building new house by the end of this year. Future Perfect
11.	He have been translating an article for 2 hours when his friends invited him to walk.
12.	He will have been leaving for 3 months by the time they dicide to make the house warming party.

1.	Is snows often in Russia in winter.
2.	Look! It is snowing!
3.	It snowed yesterday.
4.	It was snowing all day yesterday.
5.	It has snowed every day this week.
6.	It has been snowing since early morning.
7.	It will snow tomorrow.
8.	It will be snowing from 10 to 12 according to the wether forecast.
9.	Snow will have stopped by the end of tomorrow	
10.	Snow had stopped when we came back home.
11.	It had been snowing for several hours when we decided to go skying.
12.	It will have been snowing for several days when competitions start.

The Passive Voice
Present Simple Passive Voice: to be (am, is, are) + V3/V1 + ed. E.g. Houses 'are built' every year.
Present Continuous Passive Voice: to be (am, is, are) + being + V3/V1 + ed. Two houses in this steet 'are being built' now.
Present Perfect Passive Voice: have/has + been + V3/V1 + ed. Sever new houses 'have been built' this year.
Present Perfect Continuous Passive Voice: THIS FORM IS NOT EXIST;

Past Simple Passive Voice: was/were + V3/V1 + ed. Several new houses 'were built' last year.
Past Continuous Passive Voice: was/were + being + V3/V1 + ed. Several new houses 'were being built' when we arrived in this city.
Past Perfect Passive Voice: had + been + V3/V1 + ed. Some new houses 'had already been built' by the time we arrived in this city.
Past Perfect Continuous Passive Voice: THIS FORM IS NOT EXIST.

Future Simple Passive Voice: will + be + V3/V1 + ed. Some new houses 'will be built' next year.
Future Continuous Passive Voice: THIS FORM IS NOT EXIST.
Future Perfect Passive Voice: will + have + been + V3/V1 + ed. Some new houses 'will have been built' by the end of this year.
Future Perfect Continuous Voice: THIS FORM IS NOT EXIST.

I'm going to grade your papers. - Your papers are going 'to be graded' by me. 'to be graded' - indefined passive infinitive.

The Passive Voice is used:
1.	When the doer (деятель) of the action is not known / is of no importance (не важен).
E.g. Rice is grown in India.
E.g. Cheese is made of/from milk.
E.g. These ancient manuscripts were found many centures ago.
2.	Phrase stress (Фразовые ударения)
E.g. NB! This picture was taken by my dad, that one was taken by me (Эту фотографию сделал мой папа, а ту фотографию - я).

Verbs that cann't be used in the passive voice
All intransitive verbs cann't be used in Passive. Transitive: raise, lay. Intransitive: rise, sit, lie.
1.	to happen CAN'T BE USED;
2.	to score the winning goal - забить победный гол;
3.	to die CAN'T BE USED;
4.	to agree with CAN'T BE USED;
5.	to fall CAN'T BE USED;
6.	to rain, to snow CAN'T BE USED;
7.	to exist CAN'T BE USED;
8.	to stand somewhere CAN'T BE USED;
9.	to seem CAN'T BE USED;
10.	to appear CAN'T BE USED;
11.	to succeed (in doing smth) CAN'T BE USED;
12.	to travel CAN'T BE USED;
13.	to come CAN'T BE USED;
14.	to walk (гулять) CAN'T BE USED;
15.	to arrive CAN'T BE USED;
16.	to metter CAN'T BE USED;

Nobody lived in this house (Никто не жил в доме). - This house was not lived in (В доме никто не жил).
They gave 'me' (indirect object) 'a good peace of advice' (direct object). - I was given a good peace of advice by them. - A good peace of advice was given TO me by them.

The passive forms of models
1.	Children 'should be taught to respect' their elders (should = ought to). //indefinite passive infinitive
2.	This book 'had better be returned' to the library before Friday - Эту книгу лучше вернуть в библиотеку до пятницы.  had better = should
3.	Marry 'has to be told' about our change in plans. have to = must
4.	The letter 'should have been sent' last week - Письмо следовало бы послать на прошлой неделе (Желаемое действие выполнено не было)
5.	This house 'must have been built' over 200 years ago. - Должно быть, этот дом был построен более 200 лет назад (Предположение, граничащее с уверенностью).
	She must be at home. - Должно быть, она дома.

Stative Passive
When the passsive form is used to describe an existing situation or state, as in (c), (f) and (i), it is called the "stative passive". In the stative passive:
1.	No action is taking place; the action happened earlier;
2.	There is no by-phrase;
3.	The past participle functions as an adjective;
Examples:
1.	Now the door 'is locked'.
2.	I 'am interested in' Chinese art.
3.	He is satisfied with his job.
4.	Ann is married to Alex.

I did it myself. Я сделал это сам. (а не купил в магазине)
I did it by myself. Я сделал это один. (без помощи)

ВАЖНО!!!
Causative Passive Construction
TO HAVE SMTH DONE - ДЕЙТВИЕ ВЫПОЛНЯЕТСЯ ДЛЯ ВАС!!
We have had our car repared.
to have one's blood preassure taken

Reported Speech
The Rule of The Sequence of Tenses: If the predicate of the main sentence is IN THE PAST, the predicate of the subordinate sentence should be IN ONE OF THE PAST TENS FORMS.
She says (Present Simple), "The weather is nice today." - She says that the weather is nice.
She said (Past Simple), "The is nice today." - She said that the weather was nice today.
She said, "We will miss the train unless we leave home right now." - She said that we would miss the train unless (если не) we left home right now.
He said, "I will be missing you." - He said that he would be missing her.
She said, "When will you come back." - She asked when they would come back.
She said, "Why are you driving mad (сходить с ума)." - She asked why they were driving mad.
She said, "Do you like ice-cream?" - She asked if they like ice-cream.
She asked him, "Have you ever been to St.Peterburg?" - She asked him if he had been to St.Peterburg.
Mom said to me, "Do your room!" - Mom said to me to do my room.
Mom asked me, "Don't be late for dinner, please." - Mom asked me not to be late for dinner.

The are TWO EXCEPTIONS to the rule of the sequence of tenses:
1.	Universal truths: 
E.g. He said, "The sky is blue" - He said to me that the sky is blue.
2.	Immediate reporting (Действие произошло только что): 
E.g. Teacher said to us, "You have to shut up!" - Teacher said to us that we have to shut up.

Maria Vladimirovna said that she didn't know whether to go there or no (100% whether).

Modal Verbs
CAN / COULD = to manage to (завершенность), to be able to.
1.  Ability (Возможность): Mental or Physic.
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
E.g. She can play the guitar well.
E.g. He could play the football well when he was child.

2.  Possibility (Вероятность).
Infivitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
E.g. Can I see Mr. Brown now? (Если у меня есть такая возможность).
E.g. Can we go home?

3.  Permission (Разрешение).
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
E.g. You can take an orange (I allow you).

4.  Polite Request (Вежливая просьба).
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
COULD is more polite than CAN.
E.g. Could you give me a pen?

5.  Imposibility (Невозможность).
Infinitives Forms: All forms.
Only negative form.
E.g. That can't be true.
E.g. He can't have helped you. (Не может быть, чтобы он помог тебе)
E.g. He can't have failed to help you. (Не может быть, чтобы он не помог тебе)
E.g. Can he have helped you? (Неужели он помог тебе?)
E.g. Can he have failed to help you? (Неужели он не помог тебе?)

6.  Suggestion (Предположение).
Infinitive Forms:
Only could, only affirmative (уствердительные) sentences.
E.g. I could help you if I had time. (Я бы помог тебе, если бы у меня было время.)
E.g. I could have helped you yesterday if I had had time. (Я бы помог тебе вчера, если бы у меня было время).

7.  Certainty (Вероятность), less than 50%.
Infinitive Forms:
E.g. He could be at home now. (Может быть он дома).

MAY / MIGHT
1.  Polite Request.
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
Only with I or We.
E.g. May we come in?

2.  Formal Permission.
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
MAY is more formal that CAN.
E.g. You may go home now if you wish.

3.  Certainty, less than 50%.
Infinitive Forms: All forms.
E.g. He may have already left.

SHOULD / OUGTH TO = had better do
had better is close to should, but stronger in meaning.
1.  Advisability (Целесообразность).
Infinitives Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
E.g. You look bad. You should go home (Дружеский совет).
E.g. You shouldn't eat so many sweets.
E.g. You should have helped him. (Тебе следовало бы, но ты не сделал).
E.g. You shouldn't have told her all the truth. (Тебе не следовало бы, но ты сделал).

2.  Certainty, 90%
Infinitive Forms:
Future expectations (ожидания).
E.g. You should do well on the test. (Ты хорошо сдашь зачет).
E.g. You had better take care of your health (иначе будут последствия)

TO BE TO
1.  An order, a command.
Infinitive Forms: Perfect Active Indefinite, Perfect Passive Indefinite.
E.g. You are to leave the room immediately.

2.  An arrangement, a plan, an agreement.
Infinitive Forms:
Perfect Infinitives after was/were to "means": the action was carried out (не было выполнено).
E.g. We are to meet at 5 (Мы встречаемся в 5).
E.g. He was to have returned at 5 (but he didn't).

SHELL

WILL / WOULD
1.  Polite Request.
Infinitive Forms:
E.g. Would you help me?

2.  Refuse to perform an action.
Only negative.
E.g. The pen won't write.
E.g. The orange won't peel.
He won't listen to me.
E.g. If he won't go with us, I will be very upset.
E.g. I tried to talk to him yesterday but he wouldn't listen to me.

3. Repeated actions in the past.
Infinitive Forms:
Only would.
used to = would.
Would не используется с live, like, be, have.
E.g. He would do morning excersises every day when he was a child.
E.g. He used to be a driver.

"I would rather do"
1.  Preference (предпотчение), choice.
Infinitive Forms:
I would rather go to the party than stay at home. (Я лучше пойду на вечеринку чем останусь дома).
I would rather have gone to the party than stay ad home. (Я бы лучше тогда пошел на вечеринку, чем остался дома).

TO BE SUPPOSED TO
1.  Expectations.
was / were + supposed to = невыполненные ожидания
Infinitive Forms:
E.g. The game is suppose to begin at 10.
E.g. Jack was supposed to call me last night. I wonder why he didn't.

NEED
We needn't (modal) hurry. == We don't need to hurry (more common in morden English).
Need we hurry? == Do we need to hurry?
He need hurry. == He needs to hurry.
Needn't == Don't need to == Don't have to

Needn't have done (Perfect Infinitive)
E.g. I didn't know that the classes would be canceled. I needn't have got up so early (Зря я вставал так рано).


Conditionals (Сослагательное наклонение) 

Conditional One:
E.g. If I have enough time I will watch (Future Simple) TV later on tonight.
Реальное условие по отношению к будущему.

Conditional Two:
E.g. If I had enough (Past Simple) time, I would watch (Future Simple In-The-Past) TV now or later on.
E.g. If I were! you, I would accept their invitation. (Если бы я был на твоем месте, я бы ...)
Нереальное условие по отношению к настоящем или будущему.

Conditional Three:
E.g. If I had had (Past Perfect) enough time, I would have watched (Future Perfect In-The-Past) TV yesterday.
Нереальное условие по отношению к прошлому.