Homework

Page 26, Translation Exercise

1.	Fasten your seat-belts and put your seats in the upright position.
2.	Your baggage will be weighed in the check-in desk, and if the weigh is higher than it is allowed, you will have to pay excess baggage.
3.	Hand luggage should be located under your seats which are in front of you and to baggage compartment above your heads.
4.	In accordance with requirements of world safety rules during take-off and landing every electric devise should be turned off.
5.	There is three-hour delay on our flight.
6.	After going through the custom and passport control you will be able to visit duty free shops or wait for your flight in departure lounge.
7.	I have gone through the check-in desk, that is why I need check-in luggage.
8.	You can see your flight number and departure time on departures board in the middle of the departure lounge.
9.	You can take a car in the most of airports when you arrive and land.
10.	It has a half an hour before departure, that is why let go to the exit.
11.	When you board ask stewards to help to find your seats.
12.	I choose aisle seats for safety but my husband like to seat next to window. That is why we seat stand-alone.
13.
14.	I prefer the seats which are located next to exit slide. They aren't reclining seats but there are a lot of space for legs.
15.	Remove folding table and open blinds.
16.	The custom officer asked me aim of my visiting either I was a tourist, or it was bussiness trip, how mush time was I going to spend in the hotel, when I wanted to stay.
17.	- I would like to change flight to earlier flight. - I'm sorry, but every seat is booked for this flight, but if you want we can include you to a departure list.
18.	There is possibility to buy round trip ticket.
19.	Remind when you is boarded you don't have to smoke. You can smoke in departure building in special places.
20.
21.	- Hello. Do you have availability to the next weak? - I'm sorry, we don't. You had to book earlier. There are no availabilities in the hight of the season.
22.	We booked double room on full boarding house.
23.	Good day. I booked single room with breakfast.
24.	- Could you tell me where I can find elevator? - We have no elevator in our hotel, it is historical building, it can't be repaired.
25.	When you check-in the hotel you can choose more elite room.
26.	How much tips is left for housemaids in hotels?
27.	I didn't take pocket money. Put it on my bill. - Okay. You will be able to pay everything when you are obtained from the hotel.
28.	I will get very early flight. Could you wake me up at 5.30 a.m.? - Sure, don't worry. Good night.
29.	Could you tell me how can I get Oxford Circus Station?
30.	You can check-in after 14.00 p.m. and get obtained before 12.00 p.m. in every hotel in Sweden.
31.	I have some problems with heating in my room. I turned on it at full capacity, but it isn't even 20 above zero. Could you taky any action?
32.	My room is awful! Air conditioning doesn't work, it is dirty! It doesn't look like four star hotel.
