What Makes Your England
decent - приличный, благопристойный
good for shock - взбодриться
conservative - консерватор
upwardly mobile - движущийся вверх
scrinwriter - драмматург
passing train - проходящий мимо автобус
herbaceous border - живая изгородь
nearby - неподалеку
glint - сверкать, вспыхнуть
gorgeous - пышный, великолепный
swell of emotions - волна эмоций
affectionate - любящий, нежный
giant - великан, гигант
chime - звон часов, звон колоколов, звон курантов
pond - водоем
bullrush - тросник, камыш
magnificent - великолепный, пышный, величественный
christening - крещение
confirmation - подтверждение, доказательство, утверждение
marriage - замужество
nightingale - соловей
entrie - целый, единый
nursing - уход
stiff upper lip - твердость духа
proms - выпускные
chap - щека, челюсть, расщелина
slow down - замедляться
hectic pace - лихорадочный темп
mushy peas - кортофельное пюре
connoisseur - знаток, ценитель
curry - карри
rip - разорвать
pan - сковородка

Manual, p. 18, ex. I
General Information
1.	Give an English person a tiny square of garden and he starts growing the herbaceous border.
2.	A castle, which is protected by terriers, butler, particular faucets for cold and hot water - it is attributes of mediaeval English house.
3.	You will be excited with endless English landscape variety: lowlands and loftinesses, hills, mountains and cliffs, grasslands and fields.
4.	Thistle is dear to Scotch as clover to Irishman, because common flowers are national symbols for these countries.
5.	Daffadel for Welshmen isn't only beautiful flower it is symbol of national pride.
6.	Patron saint David who founded a lot of monasteries is changeless deplicted with a dove on his shoulder.
7.	Country Council manages the most important life spheres, beginning from education and ending with trash pickup.
8.	Smog formation in cities is a result of industrial smoke, exhaust gas and fog.
9.	Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals sanctioned aristocratic British tradition - fox-hunting.
10.	Not every Englishman can maintain warm at an adequate level, utilities costs, including goods and services taxes, is very high.
11.	Trying to jump the queue can make English man angry.
12.	If you meet decent, well-manered and arrogant gentelman, wearing strip suit and bowler hat, be sure, it is English man.
13.	Florence Nightegale - is a legendary English lady with stiff upper lip.

Early Invasion
14.	Ancient Celtic designs have been used for creating of elegant precious adornment.
15.	Celtic tribes, which were heathens in ancient time, were christened later.
16.	Roman legions conquered South Part of British Isles, superseding intractable Celtic tribes to outskirts.
17. The Roman put down Celtic revolt with a heavy hand.
18.	The Roman Empire falling made conqustadors leave colony and return home.
19.	Emperor Hadrian built long heavy wall on the border between England and Scotland to protect from tribes which hadn't obeyed The Roman Empire.
20.	Vikings were excelent sailors and bargainers.
21.	Harold II lost and was killed Norman heretogh, as known as Vilgelm-conquestador.

Homework: What Makes Your English (пересказ любых трех абзацев), русские эквиваленты классов, красный учебник (p. 15 - 19).